OpenJPA 1.x does not support JPA 2.0, but there are runtime environments
where applications using OpenJPA 1.x must run with the JPA 2.0 jar
present in the classpath.

Although JPA 2.0 is upwardly compatible with JPA 1.0, JPA 2.0 introduced
some methods to existing JPA interfaces that conflict with existing
signatures in OpenJPA interfaces.  These conflicts arise because
the OpenJPA interfaces extend the JPA interfaces that picked up the new 
methods.

To avoid the linkage errors that would result from no changes to
OpenJPA, when applications using the offending methods run in such an
environment, the two offending methods should be changed in the OpenJPA
interfaces.

Applications deployed in such environments should be recompiled to avoid
any possibility of using the old methods.

The offending methods are 

    public <T> T OpenJPAEntityManager.detach(T pc)
    public Properties OpenJPAEntityManagerFactory.getProperties()

The proposed fixes are designed to make recompilation and correction of
such applications as simple as possible. Such applications will compile
with either the JPA 2.0 or JPA 1.0 jar, but they should be compiled with
the JPA 1.0 jar to avoid mistakenly using interfaces or methods found
only in JPA 2.0. Any such coding mistakes will result in linkage errors
when the methods or interfaces are used at runtime.

The proposed fixes:

    public <T> T OpenJPAEntityManager.detachCopy(T pc)
    public Map<String, Object) OpenJPAEntityManagerFactory.getProperties()

    public Properties OpenJPAEntityManagerFactory.getPropertiesAsProperties()

The first two fixes follow the changes made in OpenJPA 2.x to address
these same conflicts.

The getPropertiesAsProperties method is provided as a convenience to
application developers who do not want to accept the different return
type of the redesigned getProperties method. However, the method
getPropertiesAsProperties is not currently found in the OpenJPA 2.x
interface.

It is estimated that a large proportion of OpenJPA 1.x enabled
applications are using the old detach method and that a small proportion
are using the old getProperties method.